Hello and welcome to this Python tutorial.
Alright, so now let's make the second function we need
for our RBM class.
The second function is about sampling the hidden nodes
according to the probabilities, p h given v
where h is a hidden node and v is a visible node
and as you saw in the intuition lectures,
this probability p h given v
is nothing else than the sigmoid activation function.
And so most importantly,
why do we need this sample h function?
Well that's because during the training
we will approximate the log likelihood gradient
and we will do that through Gibbs sampling
because you know the trick is to use Gibbs sampling
to approximate the log likelihood gradients.
And to apply Gibbs sampling,
we need to compute the probabilities of the hidden nodes
given the visible nodes.
And then once we have this probability,
we can sample the activations of the hidden nodes.
Alright, so let's do this.
We're gonna call this function sample underscore h
because it will return some samples
of the different hidden nodes of our RBM.
Suppose we have 100 hidden nodes in our RBM.
Well, this function will sample the activations
of these hidden nodes,
that is for each of these 100 hidden nodes,
it will activate them according to a certain probability
that we will compute in this same function
And for each of this hidden node,
this probability is p h given v.
That, is the probability that this hidden node
equals one given v that is given the value of v.
And that is this probability that is equal to
the activation function.
Alright, so sample h and this sample h function
takes two arguments.
The first one is of course self
that corresponds to the object,
because to make this sample h function,
we're gonna use the variables that we defined here
and to take these variables, we need to take our object,
which is identified by itself.
So we're taking self here
to be able to access these variables.
Then the second arguments will be x
and x will correspond to the visible neurons, v
in the probabilities, p h given v.
Then let's go inside the function.
So what do we have to do first?
First we have to compute the probability of h given v.
That is the probability that the hidden neuron equals one
given the values of the visible neurons.
That is actually our input vector of observations
with all the ratings.
So if you remember the intuition lectures
or even if you look at this paper I gave you
about this introduction of restricted Boltzmann machines,
well, this probability of h given v
is nothing else than the sigmoid activation function.
But the sigmoid activation function applied to what?
Well, applied to wx.
That is the product of w the vector of weights times x,
the vector of visible neurons
plus the bias, a ,because a responds to the bias
of the hidden nodes.
Then b corresponds to the bias of the visible nodes.
And we will use b then to define the sample function,
but for the visible nodes.
But right now we're dealing with the hidden nodes.
And so we need to take the bias of the hidden nodes.
That is, a.
So first what we're gonna do is compute the product
of the weights times the neurons, that is x.
And so let's define wx like this.
So it's a variable.
And then let's use torch because you know,
we're working with torch tensors.
And so now since we are about to make
a product of two tensors,
well we have to take torch to make that product.
And so, to make that product we need to use a function
that is called nm.
That will make the product of two tensors,
two torch tensors.
And inside this function, we of course input
our two matrices, you know, matrix one and matrix two.
So, we said that of course we want to make the product of x,
the visible neuron nw, the tensor of weights.
But remember w is attached to the object
because it's the tensor of weights of the object
that will be initialized by this in its function.
So instead of taking only w, we'll take self.w
which we'll input inside this nm function.
Alright, so that will make the product of x divisible nodes
and the tensor of weights.
But then to make things mathematically correct,
we actually need to take the transpose
of this matrix of weights.
And now this product is consistent.
So now we get our product wx.
Now let's compute what is going to be inside
the activation function.
That is the sigmoid activation function.
So that's very simple, what it's going to be inside
this activation function is going to be wx plus the bias.
You know that's the same as for every differing model,
what's inside the activation function is a linear function
of the neurons where the coefficients are the weights.
And then you have the bias that is a.
So let's compute simply this wx plus a
and we'll call this activation.
You know, because that's what's inside
the activation function.
So activation equals wx plus.
And then we want to take the bias that is a,
and again, since a, is attached
to the object that will be created by the RBM class,
we need to take self.a
to specify that a, is a variable of the object.
So self.a, but then we need to do something more.
Remember that each input vector
will not be treated individually,
but inside batches.
That is this new dimension that we created here
with these two ones here.
And even if the batch contains one input vector
or you know, one vector of bias,
well that input vector is still in the batch.
And in that case we call it a mini batch.
And here when we add the bias,
the bias of the hidden nodes,
well we want to make sure that this bias
is applied to each line of the mini batch.
That is to each line of this dimension.
And to make sure of that, we need to use a function
that will again, add a new dimension
for these bias that we're adding.
And this function is called expand underscore as.
And in parenthesis, we need to say
as what we want to expand the bias
and we want to expand it as wx.
So inside we input wx
and that way we make sure that
the bias are applied to each line of the mini batch.
Alright, perfect.
So now we have what's inside the activation function,
that is this linear combinations of the neurons,
the visible neurons,
because x corresponds to the visible neurons.
Where the coefficients are the weights
and to which is added the bias.
Alright, so now that we have that,
we can compute the activation function
that will activate the hidden node.
But remember this activation function
represents a probability.
It will be the probability that the hidden node
will be activated according to the value
of the visible node.
So let's compute this activation function
and so to clearly explain what's happening,
we're gonna call this function p of h.
So p underscore, h underscore given v.
So you know that clearly shows what it is.
It is a probability that the hidden node is activated
given the value of the visible node.
So now maybe it's time to take a little step back.
Well, for example, let's say that we have a user
that likes only dramatic movies.
Well, if there is a hidden node
that detected a specific feature corresponding
to that drama genre of the movies,
well for this user who has high ratings,
that is one ratings for all the movies
that are drama movies.
Well the probability of that node
that is specific to this drama, feature genre,
given the visible node of that user
who has all the nodes of the drama movies is equal to one.
This probability will be very high
because v equals one for the drama movies
and h corresponds to the drama movie genre.
So p h given v will be very high.
Alright, so now let's dive back into the math.
So p h given v, what did we say?
Well that's the sigmoid of this activation.
This linear combination of the neurons.
And so whereas the sigmoid function was torch.
Well, we need to take torch. and then the sigmoid function.
Very simply, so sigmoid
and inside of course we input activation.
Alright, so now we have our probability p h given v
we have a little warning.
That's just to say that p h given v is not used yet,
but that's fine.
We will use it very quickly.
So now next step, well actually, here we are
at the final step.
The final step is to return not only this probability,
but of course a sample of h.
That is a sample of all the hidden nodes,
of all the hidden neurons,
according to this probability p h given v.
So let's return these two elements
and then I'll explain what will be returned exactly.
So return, first we return p,
well, let's copy this p h given v.
That's the first element we return.
But then we return something else.
And that's some samples of the hidden neurons
according to that probability.
So what does that mean and how are we going to do that?
Well, right now what's important to understand
is that we're making a Bernoulli RBM.
We're making a Bernoulli RBM because
we're just predicting a binary outcome.
That is that the users like yes or no, a movie.
So we predict zero or one.
And so what we'll return also
is some Bernoulli samples of that distribution.
Of that probabilities of h given v.
So what does that mean?
Right now p h given v is a vector of nh elements.
That is, suppose we have 100 hidden nodes,
while this p h given vector is a vector of 100 elements.
Each of these 100 elements corresponds to
each of the 100 hidden nodes
and each of these elements is the probability
that the hidden node is activated.
So for example, let's take the if element of this vector.
Well the if element of this vector,
is the probability that the if hidden node is activated.
But remember that's given the values
of the visible nodes.
There is given the ratings of the user we're dealing with.
So that's what we have in this p h given v vector.
And so now the idea is to use these probabilities
to sample the activation of each of this
100 hundred hidden nodes.
That is for each of these 100 hidden nodes,
while depending on that probability that we have
for these hidden nodes which is in p h given v
we will activate yes or no, this hidden neuron.
And so how are we going to activate it?
Well, let's suppose that for a hidden neuron, i,
the probability corresponding to that hidden neuron
in this p h given v vector is 0.7, 70%.
Well then, what happens is that
we take a random number between zero and one,
If this random number is below 0.7, 70%
then we will activate the neuron.
And if this random number is larger than 0.7
then we will not activate the neuron.
That's how Bernoulli sampling works.
And so we do that for each of the hidden nodes
of our 100 hundred nodes.
And then in the end we get a vector of zeros and ones.
The zeros correspond to the hidden nodes
that were not activated after the sampling,
and the ones correspond to the neurons
that were activated by the sampling.
And so now the question is,
how do we return that sampling of the hidden neurons?
Well, that's very simple.
We have a torch function for this
and this is,
so I'm taking my torch library
and this is the Bernoulli function.
Here we go, Bernoulli and inside this Bernoulli function
according to you, what do we have to input?
Well, of course we have to input the distribution
of which we are making that sampling.
And that is p h given v.
So I'm pasting p h, given v here and here we go.
Our sample h function is done.
Perfect.
So that will return all the probabilities
of the hidden neurons,
given the values of the visible nodes.
That is the ratings,
and it will return also that sampling of the hidden neurons.
So that's the first function we need for Gibbs sampling.
But then we need another function,
which is sample v and basically we will do the same,
but this time for the visible neurons.
So we'll do that in the next tutorial.
And until then, enjoy deep learning.